Title: How To
Position: 2

Erdos is an educational site for learning about
[Network Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_science) based on
programmatic problem-solving and open-ended exercises and questions.

## NetSci Primer

If you're curious about NetSci, but don't know what it is or where to
begin, you can read about it [here](network-science.html). If that piques
your interest, continue reading.


## Problem Sets

The [problem sets](categories.html) are the main resource Erdos offers. They aim at teaching
the basics (and not so basics) of Network Science with an approach based on
hands-on problem solving. To solve the problems, you will need a minimal
knowledge of any programming language. Erdos uses
[python](https://www.python.org/) to showcase solutions, and for generating
the site itself, with [pelican](http://getpelican.com/) and
[elegant-theme](http://oncrashreboot.com/pelican-elegant).

If you don't feel comfortable with things such as control flow, lists, and
reading and writing files, you can check out a python tutorial
[here](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/).

### Categories

The problem sets are grouped by category and roughly sorted by difficulty
inside each category. It is recommended to get familiar with the basic
content of one category before jumping to the next, but this is not
necessary.

### Solutions

Erdos provides solutions to programming problems and hints or full answers
to questions and exercises. You are encouraged to leave a link to your
solution on the comment section of each problem.

## Glossary

Problems include definitions to important concepts in Network Science. They
are all compiled in the [Glossary](/glossary.html).

## Contact

If you have any question, comment, suggestion, or would like to contribute
to Erdos, we would like to hear form you! You can find the contact
information to the right of this page.

## Contribute

Erdos is open source and free of charge. You can contribute directly on our
GitHub page, [here](https://github.com/Leockard/erdos/).
