Title: Network Science
Position: 1
Side: left

## NetSci in 1 minute

During the study of many different disciplines, scientists have come across
a diverse set of **complex systems** that are organized in a networked
fashion. Some examples include computers interconnected to form the
Internet, social networks of friendships and acquaintances, academic
networks of co-authorship and collaboration, utility networks of the energy
grid, transportation networks of cities and roads, the list goes on. What
all of these systems have in common is that they are all formed by a set of
**interconnected entities**, to form a distributed, scattered system that
is, in many cases, more than just the sum of its parts.

**Network Science** arises from the effort to gather up all research about
networks under the same regime. In its most basic form, it eliminates the
identity of the networks, and focuses on the organizational structure only,
also known as the network's **topology**, through the study of mathematical
objects known as **graphs**. In its applied form, it deals directly with
the networks themselves, manipulating massive amounts of real-world data,
with applications to Computer Science, Sociology, Physics, Economics, and
Neuroscience.

## NetSci in 10 minutes

### What does *Erdos* mean, anyway?

During the mid twentieth century, Hungarian mathematician **Paul Erdos**
became known for his passion for mathematics, his eccentric demeanor, and
his astoundingly prolific output. He published more than 1500 articles in
many different areas of mathematics, including **graph theory**, the
mathematical toolbox underlying Network Science.

Erdos had around 500 direct collaborators for his publications, and due to
his fame and the prestige it meant to publish with him, his colleagues
invented the notion of an **Erdos number**. Erdos himself got an Erdos
number of `0`, while his direct collaborators were assigned the number
`1`. Collaborators of Erdos' direct co-authors received an Erdos number of
at most `2`, and so every person is assigned the smallest value among all
their collaborators plus one.

The Erdos number also defines an interesting social network of scientific
co-authorship, in which we can identify authors as the entities, or
**nodes**, of the network, and we can mark the existing co-authorships as
relationships, or **edges**, in the network.

You can see how this network looks like
[here](http://www.orgnet.com/Erdos.html).

In this way, Erdos was not only an expert in graph theory, but he also wove
a real interconnected network of mathematicians, scientists and
authors. The Erdos number is part of the folklore of mathematics and
academia, used to this day as a tongue-in-cheek ranking among the academic
community. There is even a *Bacon number*, defined much in the same way but
around actor Kevin Bacon, which traces the network of collaboration among
stage artists.
